## Creating custom error classes {#creating-custom-error-classes}

Flash Player 9 and later, Adobe AIR 1.0 and later

You can extend one of the standard Error classes to create your own specialized error classes in ActionScript. There are a number of reasons to create your own error classes:

*   To identify specific errors or groups of errors that are unique to your application.

For example, take different actions for errors thrown by your own code, in addition to those errors trapped by a Flash runtime. You can create a subclass of the Error class to track the new error data type in try..catch blocks.

*   To provide unique error display capabilities for errors generated by your application.

For example, you can create a new toString() method that formats your error messages in a certain way. You can also define a lookupErrorString() method that takes an error code and retrieves the proper message based on the user’s language preference.

A specialized error class must extend the core ActionScript Error class. Here is an example of a specialized AppError class that extends the Error class:

public class AppError extends Error

{

public function AppError(message:String, errorID:int)

{

super(message, errorID);

}

}

The following shows an example of using AppError in your project:

try

{

throw new AppError(&quot;Encountered Custom AppError&quot;, 29);

}

catch (error:AppError)

{

trace(error.errorID + &quot;: &quot; + error.message)

}

**_Note:_ **_If you want to override the Error.toString() method in your subclass, give it one ...(rest) parameter. The ECMAScript language specification on which ActionScript 3.0 is based defines the Error.toString() method that way, and ActionScript 3.0 defines it the same way for backward compatibility. Therefore, when you override the Error.toString() method, match the parameters exactly. You do not want to pass any parameters to your toString() method at runtime, because those parameters are ignored._